[doc][yba] Prerequisites reorganization (#21876)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/yba-overview.md

---
title: Overview of YugabyteDB Anywhere software
headerTitle: Overview
linkTitle: Overview
description: YugabyteDB Anywhere architecture and introduction.
headcontent: YugabyteDB Anywhere from 50,000 ft
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: yba-overview
    parent: yugabytedb-anywhere
    weight: 600
type: docs
---

YugabyteDB Anywhere (YBA) is a self-managed database-as-a-service that allows you to deploy and operate YugabyteDB database clusters (also known as universes) at scale.

## Features

### Deployment

> You can use YBA to deploy YugabyteDB database clusters in a variety of configurations and environments. YugabyteDB's flexible fault tolerance options include single availability zone, multiple availability zone, multi region, and multi cloud. Additionally, you can optionally set up a single read replica cluster attached to a primary cluster, and set up disaster recovery across two YugabyteDB clusters.

Reviewer: There are some other words like Performance Advisor, automation tools, yb-master, yb-tserver, node agent, Cloud provider( link to #what-is-a-cloud-provider) for which we should add links as they are YB-specific terms.

YBA supports encryption in transit and encryption at rest, and integrates with major Key Management Services (KMS).

YBA also supports scheduled backups to cloud native storage such as AWS S3, Google GCS, and Azure Storage, as well as to vanilla NFS storage.

### Day 2 management

YBA supports common Day 2 management operations, including the following:

1. Online scale in/out with no disruptions to existing database clients.
1. Vertical online scale up/down
1. Online database software upgrades and configuration changes.
1. Online OS patching for cloud providers.
1. Incremental and full backups, and point-in-time restore.
1. Rotation of CA and server certificates.
1. Rotation of KMS keys used for database encryption at rest.
1. Monitoring and alerting of database health.
1. Monitoring performance and metrics, including finding slow queries and getting insights on performance tuning using Performance Advisor.

YBA operations can be performed through a GUI, or via automation tools that use its exposed REST APIs or Terraform provider.

## Architecture

> YugabyteDB Anywhere (YBA) runs on standalone VMs or K8s pods. Separately, YBA supports deployment of YugabyteDB database clusters on either VMs or K8s pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
YugabyteDB Anywhere (YBA) runs on standalone VMs or Kubernetes pods. Separately, YBA supports deployment of YugabyteDB database clusters on either VMs or Kubernetes pods.
```

YBA stores cloud provider metadata and other cluster metadata in its own embedded database. YBA also uses a local Prometheus instance to scrape and store metrics from YugabyteDB clusters.

To ensure fault tolerance of YBA itself, YBA can be configured in High Availability mode. In this setup, the primary YBA instance is synchronized with one or more standby instances to provide quick failover in case of an outage.

## Installation overview

At a high level, you will perform the following tasks to install and use YugabyteDB Anywhere to manage database deployments:

1. Install the management software (that is, YugabyteDB Anywhere).
1. Create a Cloud Provider using YugabyteDB Anywhere.
1. Create a database cluster (also referred to as a Universe) using YugabyteDB Anywhere.

    The universe configuration and deployment uses the details from the cloud provider. If using Kubernetes, using Helm charts or the Kubernetes operator is also possible.

> ### Pre-requisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

- Server hardware and software

  - For YugabyteDB Anywhere - 1 or 2 servers (or pods if deployed on K8s) and Linux root permissions
  - For database clusters (also called a universe) - 1, 3, 5, or more servers (or pods if deployed on Kubernetes) and Linux root permissions

- Networking connectivity

>   - Between YBA and all of the DB nodes

Reviewer: Between YBA and all nodes of the database cluster. Right?

  - Between all the DB nodes
  - Optional network connectivity to the Internet for Linux OS repositories
  - Additional networking connectivity for authenticating via an external Identity Provider, if backing up externally, or for other special purposes

- Cloud permissions. These are required when using Kubernetes or a public cloud provider (AWS, GCP, or Azure). Not required when using an on-premises provider.

### What is a Cloud Provider?

> A Cloud Provider (called an Infrastructure Provider Configuration in the YBA UI) describes your cloud. For example, the number of regions and zones. In the case of public IaaS clouds, what service account should YBA use to create servers/VMs in your cloud? You must create a cloud provider before you can create your first universe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Cloud Provider (called an Infrastructure Provider Configuration in the YBA UI) describes your cloud. For example, the number of regions and zones. In the case of public IaaS clouds, what service account should YBA use to create servers/VMs in your cloud? You must create a cloud provider before you can create your first database cluster (universe).
```

YBA supports three major types of Cloud Providers:

1. Kubernetes (for example, VMware Tanzu, Red Hat OpenShift, or Managed Kubernetes Service)
1. Public Cloud (AWS, GCP, or Azure)
1. On-premises

#### Kubernetes

If you are deploying a universe to Kubernetes, use a Kubernetes provider.

> Note that if you want to deploy a database cluster to Kubernetes, YBA must itself also be deployed on K8s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that if you want to deploy a database cluster to Kubernetes, YBA must itself also be deployed on Kubernetes.
```

This approach allows for maximum automation. Also, you do have the option to specify a custom OS image that otherwise meets all other enterprise security rules. A full list of the required cloud privileges can be found later in this document.

#### On-premises

For all other cases, use an on-premises provider. Unlike the other two options, where YBA has privileges and creates the VMs (or pods) automatically, with an on-premises provider *you* create the server VMs manually.

Use this option for any of the following situations:

- To run your database cluster nodes truly on-premises (for example, on VMware or Nutanix).
- To run your database cluster nodes on the public cloud, but, due to security policies or other restrictions, you cannot provide YBA with cloud permissions, or SSH access to cloud VMs. In this case, you must create your VMs and/or deploy your Linux OS manually.
- To run a single [stretched cluster across multiple clouds](../../develop/multi-cloud/multicloud-setup/) (for example, one cluster with some nodes on AWS, others on GCP, and/or others on Azure).

> - Any other cases when you must have control over creating the VMs and/or Linux OS… and cannot give such control to YBA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any other cases where you may have to control creating the VMs and/or Linux OS, and cannot provide access to YBA.
```

With the on-premises provider, after creating VMs manually (that is, outside of YBA), you will add them to your on premises provider's free pool of servers. Subsequently, when creating the universe, database nodes are taken from the on-premises provider's free pool of servers and added to the universe.

## Best Practices

> Read all the pre-requisites first, before proceeding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you read the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) before proceeding.
```

Fill out the pre-requisites form as you go along. Start installing only after the pre-requisites form is completed.

If you have development, staging, and production environments (with multiple clusters (universes) per environment), deploy one YBA instance (or active/passive high availability pair) for each environment.

## Limitations

> YBA can be deployed to on-premises VMs, public cloud VMs, or K8s. The same is true for universes. While these are usually de-coupled and independent deployment decisions, there is one case where a dependency exists: if you want to deploy a database cluster to Kubernetes, YBA must also be deployed on K8s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
YBA can be deployed to on-premises VMs, public cloud VMs, or Kubernetes. The same is true for universes. While these are usually de-coupled and independent deployment decisions, there is one case where a dependency exists, that is, if you want to deploy a database cluster to Kubernetes, YBA must also be deployed on Kubernetes.
```

---
title: Overview of YugabyteDB Anywhere software
headerTitle: Overview
linkTitle: Overview
description: YugabyteDB Anywhere architecture and introduction.
headcontent: YugabyteDB Anywhere from 50,000 ft
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: yba-overview
    parent: yugabytedb-anywhere
    weight: 600
type: docs
---

YugabyteDB Anywhere (YBA) is a self-managed database-as-a-service that allows you to deploy and operate YugabyteDB database clusters (also known as universes) at scale.

## Features

### Deployment

> You can use YBA to deploy YugabyteDB database clusters in a variety of configurations and environments. YugabyteDB's flexible fault tolerance options include single availability zone, multiple availability zone, multi-region, and multi-cloud. Additionally, you can optionally set up a single [read replica](../../architecture/docdb-replication/read-replicas/) cluster attached to a primary cluster, and set up disaster recovery across two YugabyteDB clusters.

Reviewer 2: Reword this to:

You can use YBA to deploy YugabyteDB database clusters in a variety of configurations and environments. YugabyteDB's flexible deployment options allow clusters to be deployed to handle a wide variety of fault tolerance conditions, including: single node failures, multiple node failures, single availability zone failures, multiple availability zone failures, single region failures, single cloud provider failures, and more. Although we use the term “database cluster” here (and throughout the docs) for clarity, the YBA product technically and precisely calls these “universes”.   A universe always contains one and only one primary cluster.  Additionally, within a universe, you can optionally set up a single [read replica](https://deploy-preview-21876--infallible-bardeen-164bc9.netlify.app/preview/architecture/docdb-replication/read-replicas/) cluster attached to a primary cluster.   And, you can set up disaster recovery across two YugabyteDB universes.
